>> Hello, and welcome.
I'm David Icke.
And today, I'm going to
talk about the matrix.
The whole idea of a matrix,
a simulated reality--
which I think this is--
kind of came very prominent
to public attention
with "The Matrix"
movies, matrix movies
which described how there
was a real world and then,
through an attachment to
the back of the brain,
the brain stem, people were
attached to a fake reality,
a simulation, which
was called the matrix.
And what I found interesting
is in recent years,
more and more and
more mainstream
scientists are coming out
and saying, well, actually,
when we look at it and we look
at the uncovering of what's
happening in the fabric of our
reality, the energetic fabric,
it does look like we're in
some kind of simulation.
So the question then
comes, well, if we are,
how does it work?
How do we interact with it?
How do we manifest its
reality in our reality
so it becomes the world
we think we're in?
We are living in a waveform
information field, like Wi-Fi.
And the five senses are
decoding that information
into electrical
information which
is then communicated to the
brain, which then decodes it
again--
same information,
different form--
into digital
holographic information.
The reason that's important
to emphasize again
in relation to do we
live in a simulation
is because that's how
the simulation enters
our perception of reality.
Look at these sophisticated
virtual reality games
that people experience now all
the time getting more and more
sophisticated, where
they put on the headset,
they put on the earphones,
they put on the gloves
for the touch senses.
And when you see them there
with their headset on,
they're reacting as if
what they're experiencing
as a virtual reality is real.
And these virtual reality games
are getting closer and closer
and closer to this reality.
And those that are at
the cutting edge of this
are saying that it won't be
too long before you will not
be able to see the difference
between the virtual reality
games or systems and this
reality we call the real world.
So then we ask, well,
what's going on then?
What's going on when they're
experiencing these games?
Quite simple.
The games are hacking into
the decoding processes
that we use to decode this
reality from the waveform
through the electrical into
the digital holographic.
That's all it is.
The information from
the game overrides,
in terms of the five
sense decoding system,
what we call normal reality.
And so the dominant reality we
start to decode is the game.
And it seems so
unbelievably real.
So if you want to
control humanity or mass
by manipulating them to
experience a fake reality they
think is real--
I am absolutely convinced
that's what is happening--
then all you've got to do
is control the information
that people receive through
this decoding process,
and they will manifest the
game in their perception
when all it is is
information that's
hijacked those processes.
So when you look
at it, you can see
how reality can be
faked, because it's
being faked all the time in
virtual reality technology now.
And you might have seen a
famous movie, "The Truman Show,"
with Jim Carrey.
And for those who haven't,
basically Jim Carrey
was born into basically what we
call it in Britain a soap drama
that people were watching
all the time day after day.
But he didn't know that.
He thought this
movie sets on which
the drama was played out--
people watched it as
a drama every day--
was real.
All the people around
it were actually actors.
He didn't know that.
He found out eventually.
And the principle is the same.
People are being born into
this fake reality, I suggest.
And they believe it to be real,
without realizing that it's
actually created to enslave
their sense of reality, thus
their behavior,
and thus limiting
their perception of anything
beyond the simulation.
And it all sounds
kind of fantastic.
But the arrival of
the "Matrix" movies
was brilliant for me, because
it was a visual representation
of what I'd been thinking
about for some time,
that maybe this world is not,
quote, natural, but simulated.
And again, look at the
symbolism of those movies.
What was happening
with the connection
at the back of the
neck in the brain stem
was another source
of information
was overriding the brain's
decoding processes,
which took their
perception out of what
was said to be the real
world into this matrix.
And when they
entered the matrix,
it was just a world like
this one full of people
going about their
lives, doing their jobs,
bringing up families.
And yet, it was all just
an information source
being decoded.
And then in the last few years,
there's been a guy at NASA,
a director at their Jet
Propulsion Laboratory,
called Rich Terrile.
And he absolutely
held nothing back.
It was quite a surprise.
When he came out,
the mainstream media
was quite widely
reported in Britain.
And he said that
he had concluded
that we live in a reality
that is simulated,
and what we are
experiencing is a reality
of digital holograms--
which kind of interested
me immediately,
because I've been writing
for years and years and years
about the fact that
this is how it works.
We decode the waveform
through the electrical
into digital holograms.
Now, of course, the implication
is that if it's a simulation,
then it's not natural.
And therefore, some intelligence
has to have created it.
And to be fair, a lot of people
wouldn't have the courage
to come out like this.
But Rich Terrile
said, yeah, of course.
If what I'm saying is true,
it is a simulation based
on digital holograms, then some
intelligence has created it--
which takes you into many and
various interesting places.
So then there was professor
of physics James Gates.
Now, James Gates was a science
advisor to Barack Obama.
And he led a team asking
the same question that's
being widely asked now,
is this a simulation?
And then he went public
with the findings
that they had found in the
energetic fabric of our reality
on and off, one and zero, on and
off electrical charge systems--
which are, of course, the
basis of how computers work.
And the question
was then, what are
they doing in the energetic
fabric of our reality?
Well, if it's a
simulation, maybe there
is an explanation for
what they're doing there.
He also found, or
the team found,
in the energetic fabric of this
reality something called error
correcting codes.
And these are used
in computer systems
to basically kick back into
balance any information being
communicated that goes haywire
a bit, loses its natural state.
And these error
correcting codes kick it
back into how it should be.
As he said, what are they
doing in the energetic fabric
of our reality?
And James Gates
was asked, have you
found a set of equations
indistinguishable from those
that drive search
engines and browsers
in our energetic reality?
And Gates replied,
that is correct.
So then you move to Max
Tegmark at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, MIT,
who was, again, a physicist.
Talked about the fact
that the universe
can be entirely described in
the nature of numbers and maths.
And he also added
that the physics
of this reality and the physics
of virtual reality games
are the same.
They are encoded
in the same way.
And I could go on
with other examples
of scientists who've started
to go in this direction.
So the question then
comes, obviously,
what is all this computer-like
virtual reality-like encoding
doing in our reality?
Well, I say it's
because what we're
seeing with technology
as it advances
so fast now is
technology mimicking
reality, because our reality
is simulated in some way
by a form of technology.
It's been my view
for quite a long time
now that the idea that
the speed of light
is the fastest speed
possible, though it's
become a basic tenet
of mainstream science,
I say that's nonsense.
I mean, we live in
an infinite reality
that is all possibility
and all potential.
So you can't have a fastest
speed within all possibility,
because all possibility
is all possibility.
And I say that what
the speed of light is
is the limit, the firewall
of the simulation.
And so they found that when
you get closer and closer
to the speed of
light, things start
to go strange, start to act
differently, react differently.
And things that
work a certain way
within the reality
in general starts
to change when it gets
to the speed of light.
My view is that this is
happening because it's
entering the outer limits
of this particular simulated
reality, and therefore it
starts to act differently.
What this also
brings us to is why
there is this quite obvious
and blatant suppression
of how reality works.
There is this
suppression of knowledge,
of what is the true I. People
are born into this world,
and then they're given labels.
You are a man.
You are a woman.
You are black.
You are white.
You are this sexuality
or that sexuality.
You are this income bracket
or that income bracket.
These are the labels
that I talk about.
And people then self-identify
with these labels
as if that's who they are.
And so they're self-identifying
who they are with the world
that they are experiencing.
And so put simply, as
I would say it anyway,
they are in the simulation and
they are of the simulation.
They are getting all
their information
that's giving them a fix on
who they are and where they are
and an understanding of or
a perception of reality that
is all coming, that information,
from within the simulation,
from within the walls, I would
say, of the speed of light.
And therefore, they
have no other way
of looking at the world
from another perspective.
To do that, you have to
expand your consciousness,
your perceptual state
beyond the walls and limits
of the simulation,
as I would say.
And then you start
to enter levels
of reality, levels of awareness
that are not being dictated
in terms of their perception
by the information coming
from the simulation.
Then you start to go through
a process of re-evaluating
your sense of self.
Suddenly, the labels, you can
see that that's all they are.
And you start to realize
that you are consciousness
having that experience.
You also start to look at
the world in a different way.
You start to see dots
connecting instead of everything
being random.
And what's happening
is, although you may not
realize it, you're
actually perceiving
the simulated reality from
beyond the simulated reality.
And thus, you see it in a
completely different way
from those who are
in the simulation
and of the simulation,
because the information
of the simulation
is all they get
so that's all they perceive.
And this is why, I
would say anyway,
during this period of
known human history,
there has been this war,
really, on human perception
to constantly limit the sense
of the possible that people have
and to hold people in a
perceptual prison called
the simulation.
And your perception of reality,
your perception of self
expresses itself in a frequency.
Everything's a frequency.
And if you are in the simulation
and of the simulation,
you will be
resonating, interacting
with the simulation within
the walls of the simulation.
But when you expand your
consciousness beyond it,
you're now interacting with that
that's beyond the simulation.
Thus, you see the world
you're living in-- bracket,
simulation--
in a completely different way.
You certainly see yourself
in a different way.
So this, I would
suggest, is why there
has been this quite
obvious ongoing onslaught
on human perception
which involves
controlling information
which would give people
a sense of limitation, a
sense of powerlessness that
would hold them
in the simulation
and not expanding beyond it.
So if you look at religion,
what does that say, religion?
Through the centuries--
indeed, through the thousands
of years--
and you look at
what most of them
are saying, that what you
need to know to understand
the world, to
understand who you are
and your place in the world,
you need to read this book.
That's all.
This book will tell
you everything.
And if you deviate
from this book in terms
of your perception, then
you are a blasphemer,
and the work of the devil.
And we've seen through history
in its more extreme periods
where people are burnt at
the stake and other horrors
for not accepting
that this book is
the fountain of all knowledge
and all you need to know.
As humans became more and
more awake and more resistant
to acquiescing to that, in
came mainstream science.
Mainstream science
tells us, basically,
that this world is solid,
quantum physics apart--
because that's what happens with
science, that I've seen anyway.
Quantum physics is showing
that there is no physicality.
And the rest of
science basically
is nodding that, yes,
I acknowledge that.
Because they have
to, because that's
what they're coming up with.
But then they crack on
with their own discipline
as if that's not happening.
Everything's solid.
Everything's limited.
No life after death, no spirit.
And what is that doing?
By the way, that form of science
is just another religion.
And the holy books of
the science religion
are the books of
scientific orthodoxy.
They're the bibles and
the other holy books
what is all that doing?
Whether it's religion or
whether it's mainstream science,
it's holding people
in a perceptual state
that holds them in the
walls, the firewalls
of the simulation.
If you talk to people
who have experienced
these sophisticated advanced
virtual reality games,
they'll tell you that when
they're experiencing it,
it's real.
It's happening to them.
And you can understand why, when
this simulation is obviously
even more advanced
and sophisticated
than human technology
has yet reached,
people are born into
this world, this matrix,
and they go through
their entire lives
experiencing it and believing
it to be real until they
pass at the other end.
And because humans basically
live a short life--
nothing like, in my
view, what humans
used to live long ago when
the world was different--
just look at people
when they get
towards the end of their life.
And they'll tell you,
god, it just flew by.
I mean, where's it all gone?
And that means you have
a very limited period
within the simulation to suss
it's all fake and a simulation.
And that's why very few people
do suss it, do realize it.
But there is a route
one to realizing it.
And that is to put
aside the labels,
to stop self-identifying with
the labels that were given,
and start self-identifying with
being the I, the awareness that
is having the experience.
And that expansion of
self-identity becomes
an expansion of consciousness--
one is an expression
of the other--
and you start to breach
the perceptual walls
of this simulated reality.
And that's when the
aha moments come
and you start to see what
you couldn't see before.
And when you then
put all this together
that I've talked about here,
we come back to that question.
If this is a simulation,
it's not happened naturally.
Someone, some thing,
some intelligence,
some consciousness
has created it.
And that is a question I've
been pursuing for decades.
Who is behind the simulation,
and what is their agenda?
And the next time, I will
return to the subject
and I will return to that
question with some answers.
Who created the matrix?
I'll see you then.